you're from the Boston area what is your
take on the Patriots of ball play game
alright well sit so here's what I could
tell you yeah if you deflate a football
uh-huh
you are gonna increase the friction more
surface area on the football with your
fingers and you'll have more control
this is why we give little kids nerf
footballs who knows they can squeeze it
and has more so they're guilty so well
no no no that's the science behind oh
the question is how did the they deflate
and that is thermodynamics and I
actually have a thermodynamic beautiful
let's do it show us some thermodynamics
is basically how things react to
different temperatures oh so we can uh
that we can show you we're gonna attempt
to freeze and actually liquefy your
breath okay good and we're gonna use a
very cool temperature to do that so go
ahead and blow that up while you are
doing that doesn't look like a balloon
by the way those eventually all right
while you're doing that we're gonna need
something very very very cold to try to
liquify your breath and that is where
our old friend
liquid nitrogen comes in all right we
can get liquid nitrogen uh I know a guy
okay so I I look at nitrogen is nitrogen
is in the air it's eighty percent of the
air but when you compress it it gets
very very very cold okay though it is
320 degrees below zero Fahrenheit and so
you can say this cold it is vaporizing
the moisture in the air right now and
creating a cloud alright and so now with
very few exceptions mm-hmm when you uh
when you um get something cold it will
contract so go ahead and put your gloves
and your goggles on okay all right and
you'll know this is a boiling what does
that agree with this oh you can put that
right there okay
all right compared to the air in the
studio uh it's very very very hot
compared to the liquid I thought it was
cold playing well the air in is warm
liquid nitrogen is cold but the
difference is so great that it actually
I'm not laying in a way Lori
all right Sears we're gonna have you do
I'll go ahead and take that balloon all
right and just apply it to the liquid
nitrogen just kind of put it right in
there okay down ten yeah sure and then
just gently push it down good Kurt you
don't want to touch the liquid nitrogen
that would freeze the cells in your skin
and then you keep going to the hospital
thanks for tying me rushing down what do
you notice happening it's getting
smaller
right now the balloon like what happens
to my testicles in the pool whole
different the whole different science
but all right so keep pushing down on it
okay
all right and so what's actually
happening now is your breath is now
compressing and we're turning it into a
liquid so I'm gonna give it a lot while
we do this just a bum kids out at
parties or no no this is really amazing
so we're gonna actually see your breath
as a liquid I'm gonna push oh I've
always wanted to see my breath is lick
see mm-hmm all right so here we go now
it is compressed now the air has not
escaped it but we pick it up
that is your breath right there Wow can
I put a bag in well you can go ahead and
blow on that what blower luck well I'm
the balloon and you'll see oh wow weird
they're causing it to expand wow that is
weird and oh we got look oh my breath
good Oh God
wow that's pretty good all right all
right we can take this to another level
ah this bowl which would normally only
hold maybe three or four balloons yeah
liquid nitrogen and balloons and just go
take those out count the balloons one
two three four five six seven eight nine
that's a balloon animal
Oh ten I think that Pete is gonna be all
over you this is 11 oh look at that it
is a balloon animal it's a poodle uh 12
13 14 this is a great way to store
balloons and really a 16 17 18 balloons
and this thing Wow
all right tonight I that we can we can
make it even cooler okay cooler all
right
that's funny all right so we've uh we've
got balloons in here as well okay do not
compress as much cuz we've put a
hydrogen in these okay and so hydrogen
normally it's very light and it will
rise up okay a helium balloon will I'm
gonna cool it off it compresses I'm
gonna reach down here get one of the
cooler ones this has cracked the kids up
in school right yeah science there's
always room for failure in science
alright yeah here to tell you what look
that one's going a little bit okay oh
there it goes see oh wow I think it's a
balloon rising it's gonna man oh wait
wait it's a hydrogen balloon rising okay
Oh more so in other words Oh what about
this head like Bernie come on come on
oh well
whoa wow that's pretty good all right I
am Jimmy Kimmel wanna see more well
subscribe to our YouTube channel by
clicking here it's just like subscribing
to a magazine but without those annoying
cards that fall out of them